docs/UserGuide.md, before:

# User Guide

## Introduction

{Give a product intro}

## Quick Start

{Give steps to get started quickly}

1. Ensure that you have Java 17 or above installed. <br> 
   **Mac users:** Ensure you have the precise JDK version prescribed 
   [here](https://se-education.org/guides/tutorials/javaInstallationMac.html).
2. Download the latest version of `Duke` from [here](http://link.to/duke).   
3. Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the home folder for ClinicEase.
4. Open a command terminal, `cd` into the folder you put the jar file in, and use the 
   `java -jar ClinicEase.jar` command to run the application.
5. Type the command in the command box and press Enter to execute it. <br>
   Some example commands you can try:
   - `add-patient n/John ic/S1234567D dob/2003-04-06 g/M p/91218188 a/123 Main St`: <br>
     Adds a patient named `John` to the patient list.
   - `delete-patient S1234567D`: Deletes the patient with NRIC `S1234567D` in the patient list. 
   - `bye`: Exits the app.
6. Refer to the Features below for details of each command.


## Features 
> [!NOTE]
> - Words in `UPPER_CASE` represent parameters that must be provided by the user. <br>
    e.g. in `view-patient NRIC`, `NRIC` is a parameter which can be used as `view-patient S1234567D`.
> - Items in square brackets are optional. <br>
    e.g `ic/NRIC [n/NAME] [dob/BIRTHDATE]` can be used as `ic/S1234567D n/John` or as `ic/S1234567D dob/2002-06-07`.
> - Every parameter must be supplied by the user. <br>
    e.g. if the command specifies `add-appointment ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`, the user
    must fill in all parameters for the input to be valid.
> - Parameters must be entered in the **specified order**. <br>
    e.g. if the command specifies `ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`, the user
    must follow this exact sequence for the input to be valid.
> - Extraneous parameters for commands that do not take in parameters (such as `list` and `bye`) will be ignored. <br>
    e.g. if the command specifies `list-patient 12345`, it will be interpreted as `list-patient`.
> - Command words are **case-insensitive**. <br>
    e.g. `liST-paTIEnt` will be interpreted as `list-patient`.

### Adding an appointment: `add-appointment`
Adds a new appointment to the list of appointment.

Format: `add-appointment ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`

* The patient with the specified `NRIC` **must** exist must exist in the system.
* `DATE` format: `yyyy-MM-dd`, where `yyyy` is year, `MM` is month,
  `dd` is day (e.g., `2025-03-31`).  
* `TIME` format: `HHmm` in 24-hour format (e.g., `1430` for 2:30 PM).

Example of usage: 

`add-appointment ic/S1234567D dt/2025-03-31 t/1200 dsc/Annual checkup`

### Deleting an appointment: `delete-appointment`
Deletes a specified appointment from the appointment list.

Format: `delete-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`

* The `APPOINTMENT_ID` refers to the unique identifier assigned by the program (e.g., "A1XX") to an appointment.
* The `APPOINTMENT_ID` can be found in the displayed appointment list when using the list-appointment command.

Example of usage:

`delete-appointment A100`

### Sorting appointments: `sort-appointment`
Sorts the appointments in the appointment list.

Format: `sort-appointment byDate` or `sort-appointment byId`

* The `sort-appointment byDate` sorts the appointments by date and time in **ascending order**. 
* The `sort-appointment byId` sorts the appointments by `APPOINTMENT_ID` in **ascending order**.

Example of usage:

* `sort-appointment byDate`
* `sort-appointment byId`

## FAQ

**Q**: How do I transfer my data to another computer? 

**A**: {your answer here}

## Command Summary

| Action                | Format, Examples                                                                                                                                                                               |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Add patient           | `add-patient n/NAME ic/NRIC dob/BIRTHDATE g/GENDER p/PHONE a/ADDRESS`<br/> e.g. `add-patient n/John Doe ic/S1234567D dob/1999-12-12 g/M p/98765432 a/123 Main Street h/Diabetes, Hypertension` |
| Delete patient        | `delete-patient NRIC`<br/> e.g. `delete-patient S1234567D`                                                                                                                                     |
| Edit patient          | `edit-patient ic/NRIC [n/NAME] [dob/BIRTHDATE] [g/GENDER] [a/ADDRESS] [p/PHONE]`<br/> e.g. `edit-patient ic/S1234567D n/Billy Joe dob/1999-12-21`                                              |
| List patient          | `list-patient`                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| View patient          | `view-patient NRIC`<br/> e.g. `view-patient S1234567D`                                                                                                                                         |
| Store medical history | `store-history n/NAME ic/NRIC h/MEDICAL_HISTORY`<br/> e.g. `store-history n/John Doe ic/S1234567D h/Depression`                                                                                |
| View medical history  | `view-history NRIC` or `view-history NAME`<br/> e.g. `view-history S1234567D` or `view-history John Doe`                                                                                       |
| Edit medical history  | `edit-history ic/NRIC old/OLD_TEXT new/NEW_TEXT`<br/> e.g. `edit-history ic/S1234567D old/Depression new/Obesity`                                                                              |
| Add appointment       | `add-appointment ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`<br/> e.g. `add-appointment ic/S1234567D dt/2025-06-15 t/1400 dsc/Annual Checkup`                                                      |
| Delete appointment    | `delete-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`<br/> e.g. `delete-appointment A123`                                                                                                                        |
| List appointment      | `list-appointment`                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Mark appointment      | `mark-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`<br/> e.g. `mark-appointment A101`                                                                                                                            |
| Unmark appointment    | `unmark-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`<br/> e.g. `unmark-appointment A101`                                                                                                                        |
| Sort appointment      | `sort-appointment byDate` or `sort-appointment byId`                                                                                                                                           |
| Find appointment      | `find-appointment PATIENT_NRIC`<br/> e.g. `find-appointment S1234567D`                                                                                                                         |

# About us

Commit message:

Added Use cases and UG intro

docs/UserGuide.md, after:

# User Guide

## Introduction

ClinicEase is an application designed to assist doctors in managing patient records and appointments efficiently. It allows the user to add, edit, view, and delete patient information and medical history, as well as schedule and track appointments with ease. With its intuitive command-based interface, ClinicEase ensures smooth and reliable clinic operations.

## Quick Start

{Give steps to get started quickly}

1. Ensure that you have Java 17 or above installed. <br> 
   **Mac users:** Ensure you have the precise JDK version prescribed 
   [here](https://se-education.org/guides/tutorials/javaInstallationMac.html).
2. Download the latest version of `Duke` from [here](http://link.to/duke).   
3. Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the home folder for ClinicEase.
4. Open a command terminal, `cd` into the folder you put the jar file in, and use the 
   `java -jar ClinicEase.jar` command to run the application.
5. Type the command in the command box and press Enter to execute it. <br>
   Some example commands you can try:
   - `add-patient n/John ic/S1234567D dob/2003-04-06 g/M p/91218188 a/123 Main St`: <br>
     Adds a patient named `John` to the patient list.
   - `delete-patient S1234567D`: Deletes the patient with NRIC `S1234567D` in the patient list. 
   - `bye`: Exits the app.
6. Refer to the Features below for details of each command.


## Features 
> [!NOTE]
> - Words in `UPPER_CASE` represent parameters that must be provided by the user. <br>
    e.g. in `view-patient NRIC`, `NRIC` is a parameter which can be used as `view-patient S1234567D`.
> - Items in square brackets are optional. <br>
    e.g `ic/NRIC [n/NAME] [dob/BIRTHDATE]` can be used as `ic/S1234567D n/John` or as `ic/S1234567D dob/2002-06-07`.
> - Every parameter must be supplied by the user. <br>
    e.g. if the command specifies `add-appointment ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`, the user
    must fill in all parameters for the input to be valid.
> - Parameters must be entered in the **specified order**. <br>
    e.g. if the command specifies `ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`, the user
    must follow this exact sequence for the input to be valid.
> - Extraneous parameters for commands that do not take in parameters (such as `list` and `bye`) will be ignored. <br>
    e.g. if the command specifies `list-patient 12345`, it will be interpreted as `list-patient`.
> - Command words are **case-insensitive**. <br>
    e.g. `liST-paTIEnt` will be interpreted as `list-patient`.

### Adding an appointment: `add-appointment`
Adds a new appointment to the list of appointment.

Format: `add-appointment ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`

* The patient with the specified `NRIC` **must** exist must exist in the system.
* `DATE` format: `yyyy-MM-dd`, where `yyyy` is year, `MM` is month,
  `dd` is day (e.g., `2025-03-31`).  
* `TIME` format: `HHmm` in 24-hour format (e.g., `1430` for 2:30 PM).

Example of usage: 

`add-appointment ic/S1234567D dt/2025-03-31 t/1200 dsc/Annual checkup`

### Deleting an appointment: `delete-appointment`
Deletes a specified appointment from the appointment list.

Format: `delete-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`

* The `APPOINTMENT_ID` refers to the unique identifier assigned by the program (e.g., "A1XX") to an appointment.
* The `APPOINTMENT_ID` can be found in the displayed appointment list when using the list-appointment command.

Example of usage:

`delete-appointment A100`

### Sorting appointments: `sort-appointment`
Sorts the appointments in the appointment list.

Format: `sort-appointment byDate` or `sort-appointment byId`

* The `sort-appointment byDate` sorts the appointments by date and time in **ascending order**. 
* The `sort-appointment byId` sorts the appointments by `APPOINTMENT_ID` in **ascending order**.

Example of usage:

* `sort-appointment byDate`
* `sort-appointment byId`

## FAQ

**Q**: How do I transfer my data to another computer? 

**A**: {your answer here}

## Command Summary

| Action                | Format, Examples                                                                                                                                                                               |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Add patient           | `add-patient n/NAME ic/NRIC dob/BIRTHDATE g/GENDER p/PHONE a/ADDRESS`<br/> e.g. `add-patient n/John Doe ic/S1234567D dob/1999-12-12 g/M p/98765432 a/123 Main Street h/Diabetes, Hypertension` |
| Delete patient        | `delete-patient NRIC`<br/> e.g. `delete-patient S1234567D`                                                                                                                                     |
| Edit patient          | `edit-patient ic/NRIC [n/NAME] [dob/BIRTHDATE] [g/GENDER] [a/ADDRESS] [p/PHONE]`<br/> e.g. `edit-patient ic/S1234567D n/Billy Joe dob/1999-12-21`                                              |
| List patient          | `list-patient`                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| View patient          | `view-patient NRIC`<br/> e.g. `view-patient S1234567D`                                                                                                                                         |
| Store medical history | `store-history n/NAME ic/NRIC h/MEDICAL_HISTORY`<br/> e.g. `store-history n/John Doe ic/S1234567D h/Depression`                                                                                |
| View medical history  | `view-history NRIC` or `view-history NAME`<br/> e.g. `view-history S1234567D` or `view-history John Doe`                                                                                       |
| Edit medical history  | `edit-history ic/NRIC old/OLD_TEXT new/NEW_TEXT`<br/> e.g. `edit-history ic/S1234567D old/Depression new/Obesity`                                                                              |
| Add appointment       | `add-appointment ic/NRIC dt/DATE t/TIME dsc/DESCRIPTION`<br/> e.g. `add-appointment ic/S1234567D dt/2025-06-15 t/1400 dsc/Annual Checkup`                                                      |
| Delete appointment    | `delete-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`<br/> e.g. `delete-appointment A123`                                                                                                                        |
| List appointment      | `list-appointment`                                                                                                                                                                             |
| Mark appointment      | `mark-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`<br/> e.g. `mark-appointment A101`                                                                                                                            |
| Unmark appointment    | `unmark-appointment APPOINTMENT_ID`<br/> e.g. `unmark-appointment A101`                                                                                                                        |
| Sort appointment      | `sort-appointment byDate` or `sort-appointment byId`                                                                                                                                           |
| Find appointment      | `find-appointment PATIENT_NRIC`<br/> e.g. `find-appointment S1234567D`                                                                                                                         |

# About us
